---
title: Tips for getting started with Supabase
date: 2024-06-10
published: true
---

I've been playing around with [Supabase][sb] for a side project recently. It's a super convenient
platform for things like this because it's really easy to get up and running. I haven't personally
used it for anything in production so I can't really comment on the value prop or whether it works
at scale.

In my time using it, there's a few things I've discovered or run into that I think would be useful
knowledge to share.

### 1. Add dbdev to your instance

[Dbdev][dbdev] is a database package manager for trusted language extensions for Postgres. It allows
you to install extensions for things like generating IDs and role-based access control to your
Supabase Postgres instance. Supabase provides a certain set of built-in modules in their extensions
page for your database. Adding dbdev to your instance allows you to access even more.

You can install it by following the instructions [here][dbdi]. There is also a built-in template for
installing dbdev in the SQL Editor.

### 2. Use the SQL Editor directly

Supabase provides a very nice UI for a lot of Postgres including editing tables. However, I have
found that in most cases it's worth learning how to do things directly in the SQL Editor. You'll get
a better understanding of what the commands are doing and learn the pgsql syntax at the same time.

I think this is especially useful when creating tables. Supabase abstracts away some specifics of
how column types work and values are autogenerated. This caused me some issues when first getting
started using it that were much clearer once I looked at the SQL directly.

### 3. Use better UUIDs than the default

By default, Supabase only supports UUIDv3 and v4. However, the modern spec goes all the way up to v7
and there are alternative IDs available, like Segment's [ksuid][ksuid]. It's generally better to use
something like UUIDv7 or ksuid: they're sortable without leaking information like sequential IDs and
they're shorter than older format UUIDs.

You can do this by installing the [kiwicopple@pg_idkit][pgi] module from dbdev. The install
instructions provided on the website don't work correctly on Supabase though. You can install it by
running the following commands in the SQL Editor:

```sql
select dbdev.install('kiwicopple-pg_idkit');
drop extension if exists "kiwicopple-pg_idkit";
create extension "kiwicopple-pg_idkit";
```

Then, you can use the generation methods directly in SQL commands, like
`gen_random_ksuid_microsecond()`.

### 4. Use some other cloud serverless provider over Edge Functions

Supabase Edge Functions is not well-explained as a feature in my opinion. It's basically a standard
serverless provider that allows you to run small services without a full backend. Unfortunately, I
have found that Supabase Edge Functions is rather less useful than many of the other modules. The
runtime is required to be [Deno][deno] which adds some annoying restrictions. For example, some of
the Google Javascript SDKs will not work because Deno does not currently implement the Node APIs for
`Http2Session`. There does not currently seem to be a way to run Node apps or containers with other
runtimes.

Given all this, I recommend using one of the other cloud serverless providers if you need access to
cloud lambdas, like AWS Lambda or Azure Functions.

[sb]: https://supabase.com/
[dbdev]: https://database.dev/
[dbdi]: https://database.dev/supabase/dbdev
[ksuid]: https://segment.com/blog/a-brief-history-of-the-uuid/
[pgi]: https://database.dev/kiwicopple/pg_idkit
[deno]: https://deno.com/
